1.The main thing about AJAX is that data is coming from PHP, but still the page does not get reloaded.
The usual way to do it is to submit a form, which then goes to a php page, so basically a new page IS loaded.

2.AJAX came first in Feb 2005 when I was in 9th : http://adaptivepath.org/ideas/ajax-new-approach-web-applications/

JQuery is a library which was designed later in Aug 2006, when I was studying for the 10th boards.
At the time JQuery was being developed, probably AJAX was the big new development. So the JQuery developers just wrote an easier wrapper
to call the same ajax functions. Kind of unnecessary. AJAX is the original one

3.AJAX - there is no XML anywhere
AJAX is short for "Asynchronous JavaScript+CSS+DOM+XMLHttpRequest"
So, the X actually stands for XMLHttpRequest, which is how a request is sent to the PHP server

4.Asynchronous programming
A.Non programming example
Synchronous : You want a pizza for dinner and you are out of the frozen kind. So you have to stop playing WOW which upsets your clan.
You go to the kitchen, make the dough, cover it with sauce, add the cheese, and smother it your favorite bacon topping.
You just spent 20 minutes of your time making the pizza with another 10 minutes in the oven.
The timer beeps and you pull the hot pie out.
You can sit back down in front of your computer, eat the pizza, and continue with your conquest.

Asynchronous : You want a pizza for dinner while playing WOW.
You open up a browser window on your 5th monitor.
You load up the Pizza website and order your extra cheesy bacon pizza with a side of bacon grease garlic sauce.
You go back to your raid and after 20 minutes the door bell rings.
You get the pizza.
You sit back down in front of your computer, eat the pizza, and continue with your conquest.

So what is the difference? One way you waste 20-30 minutes of precious WOW time, the other way you waste $20 plus tip.

B.Basically, you assign a handler to an event, and when the event occurs, a callback function is executed
eventcondition(callbackfunctionnameonly) OR
eventcondition(function(){this is the body of the callbackfunction only and we are not executing. We don't know when the event
would occur, ie, say when the user would click that button, the event would take care of that and call the function.
I only supply that function})

C.Other links to read
https://egghead.io/series/mastering-asynchronous-programming-the-end-of-the-loop
